What is Caching? How can you save money with Caching?
Caching is the process of storing copies of files in a cache, or temporary storage location, so that they can be accessed more quickly. Technically, a cache is any temporary storage location for copies of files or data, but the term is often used in reference to Internet technologies. Web browsers cache HTML files, JavaScript, and images in order to load websites more quickly, while DNS servers cache DNS records for faster lookups and CDN servers cache content to reduce latency.

What is load balancing?
Load balancing is the process of distributing network traffic across multiple servers. This ensures no single server bears too much demand. By spreading the work evenly, load balancing improves application responsiveness. It also increases availability of applications and websites for users.

What is CAP Theorem?
The CAP theorem states that a distributed database system has to make a tradeoff between Consistency and Availability when a Partition occurs. A distributed database system is bound to have partitions in a real-world system due to network failure or some other reason

What is PACELC Theorem?
Like the CAP theorem, the PACELC theorem states that in case of network partitioning (P) in a distributed computer system, one has to choose between availability (A) and consistency (C). PACELC extends the CAP theorem by introducing latency and consistency as additional attributes of distributed systems.

What is Eventual Consistency?
Eventual Consistency is a guarantee that when an update is made in a distributed database, that update will eventually be reflected in all nodes that store the data, resulting in the same response every time the data is queried.

What is Strong Consistency?
Strong Consistency simply means the data must be strongly consistent at all times. All the server nodes across the world should contain the same value as an entity at any point in time. And the only way to implement this behavior is by locking down the nodes when being updated

What are the different types of databases?
Hierarchical databases
Network databases
Object-oriented databases
Relational databases
NoSQL databases

What are message queues?
A message queue is essentially an intermediary storage queue that allows microservices to communicate with each other asynchronously. Message queuing allows a service to send a “message” to another service, even if the other service is not ready to receive it


Which service by Amazon Web Services (AWS) can you use for Queues?
Simple Queue Service. AWS manages all ongoing operations and underlying infrastructure needed to provide a highly available and scalable message queuing service. With SQS, there is no upfront cost, no need to acquire, install, and configure messaging software, and no time-consuming build-out and maintenance of supporting infrastructure.

What is Pub Sub ?
Publish/subscribe messaging, or pub/sub messaging, is a form of asynchronous service-to-service communication used in serverless and microservices architectures. In a pub/sub model, any message published to a topic is immediately received by all of the subscribers to the topic.


How do you go about sending a million emails? What are the steps you will take to ensure system is stable, and will end up with lesser failures?
Amazon Simple Email Service (SES) is a cost-effective email service built on the reliable and scalable infrastructure that Amazon.com developed to serve its own customer base. With Amazon SES, you can send transactional email, marketing messages, or any other type of high-quality content to your customers.

What are webhooks?
Webhooks are automated messages sent from apps when something happens. They have a message—or payload—and are sent to a unique URL—essentially the app's phone number or address. Webhooks are almost always faster than polling, and require less work on your end. They're much like SMS notifications.

What is Docker? Why do we use it?
Docker is an open platform for developing, shipping, and running applications. Docker enables you to separate your applications from your infrastructure so you can deliver software quickly. With Docker, you can manage your infrastructure in the same ways you manage your applications.

What is S3 Service in AWS?
Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) is an object storage service that offers industry-leading scalability, data availability, security, and performance. You can use Amazon S3 to store and retrieve any amount of data at any time, from anywhere.

What is EC2 Instance in AWS?
Amazon EC2 provides scalable computing capacity in the AWS cloud. Leveraging it enables organizations to develop and deploy applications faster, without needing to invest in hardware upfront. Users can launch virtual servers, configure security and networking, and manage cookies from an intuitive dashboard.

What is Cloudfront in AWS?
Amazon CloudFront is a web service that speeds up distribution of your static and dynamic web content, such as . html, . css, . js, and image files, to your users.


What is Route 53 In AWS?
Amazon Route 53 effectively connects user requests to infrastructure running in AWS – such as Amazon EC2 instances, Elastic Load Balancing load balancers, or Amazon S3 buckets – and can also be used to route users to infrastructure outside of AWS.

What are ELBs in AWS?
Elastic Load Balancing (ELB) is a load-balancing service for Amazon Web Services (AWS) deployments. ELB automatically distributes incoming application traffic and scales resources to meet traffic demands. ELB helps an IT team adjust capacity according to incoming application and network traffic.


What is TLS?
Transport Layer Security (TLS) is the successor protocol to SSL. TLS is an improved version of SSL. It works in much the same way as the SSL, using encryption to protect the transfer of data and information. The two terms are often used interchangeably in the industry although SSL is still widely used.

What is the difference HTTPS vs HTTP?
The only difference between the two protocols is that HTTPS uses TLS (SSL) to encrypt normal HTTP requests and responses. As a result, HTTPS is far more secure than HTTP. A website that uses HTTP has http:// in its URL, while a website that uses HTTPS has https://.

What is a reverse proxy?
A reverse proxy is a server that sits in front of web servers and forwards client (e.g. web browser) requests to those web servers. Reverse proxies are typically implemented to help increase security, performance, and reliability.